---
layout: post
title: Day 6 - It's Not Me, It's You
date: 2014-08-09 23:59:59
---
Today was a whirlwind of a day, and I feel like I got a lot of code done. The
first thing I did today was work on automatically changing the langauge of the
new snippet code entry box when the user changes the dropdown. This turned out
to be pretty easy, and I will show the code in a couple lines.

First, though, we need to talk. CoffeeScript, we've been seeing each other for
almost six days now, and I know it's shallow, but your syntax just looks so
unelegant. Don't cry, you're just making this harder than it already is. So
yeah I'm switching back to JavaScript. So
[here](https://github.com/JackMc/Syntag/blob/da974c3f214ba961e4c8868266bd6ab41e1809cf/syntag_web/app/assets/javascripts/snippets.js)'s the code for what I
talked about above (not included in this post so as to keep it semi-short).

Now this code downloads the associated JavaScript file whenever a change happens
to the dropdown. This code changed around a lot, but we'll talk about that
later. Firstly, why isn't there better syntax for dynamically loading a
JavaScript file?! If I want to do that, then I have to literally insert a
script tag into the head tag. This really is unacceptable, but I guess Google is
right...

So the other thing that I worked on today was integrating the CodeMirror editor
into the code display in addition to the snippet new page. It turns out that you
can make CodeMirror read-only and turn off line numbers to make it display a
snippet really nicely! Here is my final function to download language data
and stick it into a code editor:

{% highlight javascript %}
function set_language(lang_id) {
	var code_editor_name = null

	// If the language has already been downloaded (along with it's JSON)
	if (lang_id < downloaded.length && downloaded[lang_id] != undefined) {
		code_editor_name = downloaded[lang_id]

		if (editor != null) {
		editor.setOption("mode", code_editor_name)
		}
	}
	else {
		$.ajax("/admin/languages/" + lang_id + ".json").done(function (json_lang) {
		$("head").append($("<script src=\"/assets/codemirror/modes/" + json_lang["code_editor_name"] + ".js\"></script>"))
		downloaded[json_lang["id"]] = json_lang["code_editor_name"]

		code_editor_name = json_lang["code_editor_name"]

		if (editor != null) {
			editor.setOption("mode", code_editor_name)
		}
		})
	}
}
{% endhighlight %}

You can see a demo version of this app on [Heroku](http://syntag-web.herokuapp.com/snippets).
